# 1. Where Do We Begin with Mind?


## Contents
* Having questions about brian mechanism
* Epiphanies of brian mechanism
* Meaning of items for human
* Goal of the author
* Aim of Synthetic neurorobotics studies
* Focus of Synthetic neurorobotics studies

## Keyword
* consciously <-> unconsciously
* subjective mind <-> reality of the world
* scientists <-> philosophers
* dynamic phenomena 
* multidisciplinary approach
* function <-> dynamic interaction
* compositionality
* autonomy
* **dynamical systems perspectives**
* **circular casuality**
  * Top-down intentionality
  * Bottom-up recognition



## Summary
_[Having questions about brian mechanism]_
* Many of our thoughts and actions are generated either consciously or unsconsciously by utilizing knowledge or concepts in terms of images, rules, and symbols
   * How they are stored in our memories?
   * How they can be manipulated in our mind?
* My actions and thoughts tend to shift freely from the current state even while doing the state action.  
   * Is this spontaneous switching generated by my will?
   * If so, how is such will initiated in my mind in the first place?
* Mostly, my everyday thinking or action follows routines, habituation, or social conventions. Nevertheless, sometimes some novel images, thoughts, or acts can be created.
   * How are they generated?
* Finally, a somewhat philosophical question arises
   * How can I believe that this world really exists without my subjectively thinking about it?
   * Does my subjective mind subsume the reality of the world or is it the other way around?
* Each piece of detailed knolwedge about the biological brain cannot as yet be connected together well enough to produce a comprehensive picture of the whole. Understanding the mind is not only the remit of **scientists**; it is has always been the job of **philosophers**.
* It is hard to link metaphysical arguments (ex. Aristotle saying, "The mind is the part of the soul by which it knows and understands.") to the actual biological reality of the brain.

_[Epiphanies of brian mechanism]_
* Epiphany 1: Hydraulic System, consisting of piping networks
   * It was conneted to a complex of looping networks equipped with various functional components such as automatic control valves, pumps, surge accumulators, and tanks.
   * When conducting an emergency shutdown test of one of the huge main valves downstream in the pipeline, he was terrified by the thundering noise of the **"water hammer" phenomenon** (the loud knocking heard in a pipe caused by an abrupt pressure surge upstream of the valve).
   * There is a strange coherence of sounds occuring across the yard.
   * There is "a pair" of water hammers at different places, seeming to respond to each other periodically.
   * The coherence appeared and disappeared almost capriciously, arising again in other locations. 
   * The plots (=time history of the internal pressure at various points in the piping network) showed:
      * some oscillatory patterns of pressure hikes appearing at certain points 
      * tending to transform to other oscillatory patterns within several minutes
      * these patterns seemed to form in a combinatory way with a set of patterns appearing in different combinations with other sets
   *  the mysterious ensemble of roaring pipes
   * something like inside a huge brain where its consciousness arose
   * something like a mystery but complex transient phenomena involving physical systems
   * the spontaneous nature of the mind
* Epiphany 2: Robot navigating around a room (guided by a map preprogrammed)
   * the robot correctly names the objects.
   * How the robot could know what a refrigerator meant?
   
_[Meaning of items for human]_
* Mearning of these items to him would materialize as the result of **his own experiences** with them.
* the meanings of various things in the world around us would be formed in our brains through the **accumulation** of our everyday experiences interacting with them.

_[Goal of the author]_
* Build his own robot, that could have a subjective mind, experience feelings, imagine things, and think about the world by interacting in it.
* Subjective mind should involve dynamic phenomena fluttering between the conscious and unconscious (just as with the water hammers)
* No single discipline could fully explain what the mind is or how it works
   * There are many subjects related to the mind and cognition (cognitive science, robotics, neuroscience, neural network modeling, and philosophy)
   * Each discipline seemed to have its own specific way of understanding the mind. But, the problem is each discipline seemed too narrow to exchange ideas and views with other disciplines.
* **Multidisciplinary approach** could well produce a picture of the mind!!!
   * If attainable, a good understanding would come from a mutual, relational understanding between multiple disciplines, enabling new findings and concepts in one domain to be explainable using different expressions in other disciplines.
   
_[Aim of Synthetic neurorobotics studies]_
* How artificial systems can host cognitive minds characterized
   * by higher order cognitive capabilities such as compositionality
   * by autonomy 
      * in generating spotaneous interactions with the outer world either consciously or unconsciously
* The aim of synthetic neurrobotics studies is to examine experimentally the emergence of nontrivial mindlike phenomena (=nontrivial patterns of water hammer phenomena) through dynamic interactions, under specific conditions and for various cognitive tasks. (=under specific operational pipe valve conditions) 
* It differs from aim of conventional intelligent robotics studies to program functions to generate intelligent actions

_[Focus of Synthetic neurorobotics studies]_
* **TWO FOCUS** of Synthetic neurorobotics studies
  1. Using **dynamical systems perspectives** (-> neurodynamic system via consolidative learning of experience) so as to understand cognitive mind mechnisms. **It** has the principles of **self-organization** from physics, useful for making higer order cognition such as compositional manipulations of "symbol", concepts, or linguistic thoughts. 
  2. Understanding **circular causality** arising between body (=subjective mind) and environment (objective world). **It** emerges as the result of iterative interactions between the top-down subjective intention of acting on the objective world and the bottom-up recognition of the objective world with modification of the intention. 
      * **Top-down intentionality**, where our own subjective images, views, and thoughts consolidated into structures through past experience, are proactively projected onto the objective world, guiding and accompanying our actions.
      * **Bottom-up recognition** of the perceptual reality results in **the modification of top-down intention** so as to minimize gaps (=errors) between our prior expectations and actual outcomes.
* (The author believe that) The key to **unlocking all of the mysteries of the mind** (including consciousness, free will) is hidden in this structure (=neurodynamic system) whithin which circular causality occurs. Also, it might help the fundamental philosophical problem, **mind/body dualism** (how the subjective mind and the objective world are related). 


## Summary with My View
Someone says understading human mechanism is as difficult as the universe mechanism. However, we want to understand the core of human mechanism (=brain) so as to build the aritifical system acting like human. The author is especially interested in understanding the mind/cognition. So, he wants to model the aritificial brain inspired by various disciplines, not only science but also philosophy because he believe that each discipline seemed too narrow to exchange ideas and views with other disciplinesd. 

The aim of his research is to find the mind/cognition mechanism (compositionality, autonomy, free will) through synthetic neurorobotics studies. His weapons for this aim are neurodynamic system and circular causality. The former is from physics, useful for making compositionality by using the principle of self-organization. The latter is inspired from the fundamential philosophical problem, that is dualism (Descartes Saying: "I think, therefore I am."), which (he believe) can be solved by circular causality. It arises between the subjective mind (=I think -nonmatter) and the objective world (=I am -matter) after several iterations. The former may be constructed by top-down intentionality similar to 'MAP' which has prior knolwedge just like subjective mind and the latter may be constructed by bottom-up recognition similar to 'ML' which only considers the environments (=data). 


## Reference
> This chapter is a part of 'Exploring Robotic Minds' written by Jun Tani. I wrote this summary while taking his class, 'EE817-Deep Learning and Dynamic Neural Network Models'. 
